The Plan:

Genre: Privateers

You start as a lone privateer, but first you must name yourself and your top 5 shipmates.

What about starting as a privateer? You work for the english and steal from the spanish, french, and portugeuse

    would be much more diverse and we'd need more names

Pirates:
    Pros:
        Wikipedia Page is nice lol
        No one will question the historical accuracy
    Cons: 
        There's no distinct goal to play for (unless we want to make one up)
Privateers:
    Pros:
        You'll have an actually mission for the game (pay off your investor)
        also, we can name the investor
        You know your whole crew will be the same nationality (easier to generate names)
        we can steal from pirates
        start with a ship
    Cons:
        I dont think so. Not many people are familiar with privateers 

** Disclaimer: We won't try to be historically accurate **

Screen Resolution: ?
(640 x 480 is a default for something but I'm not sure what)sounds good

Setting: Carribean, I'm assuming? yep

Locations: 
(this should probably be a list of cities you can sail to)

Things you can do:
(actions)
fight
run
plunder
rest
sail

Things you can have (items):

Food - Low Monetary Value. Gets eaten by sailors.
Rum - Low Monetary Value. Sailors drink it, keeps up morale.
Oranges - High Monetary Value. 
Sugar - High Monetary Value. 
Wood - Low Monetary Value, required for ship upgrades
Metal - Low Monetary Value, required for ship upgrades
Cloth - Low Monetary Value, required for ship upgrades
Ammo - Low Monetary Value, required for skirmishes
guns

Things that are bad for you:
(disease, notoriety, etc)
scurvy
notoriety
murder
assassination
ship destroyed

Ships:
start with a small size ship. Steal and plunder you're way up to a Man O' War
The fights would be random. Amount of crew to send over can be chosen. Minimum of 10 must remain on ship.
Canons would be on a dice roll, 3 to 2 odds. Larger ships get higher counters when it comes to fighting.
...
